# CWC90
## Memory Delve

Camilo gripped the doorknob again, this time gathering his strength. "What's wrong, Milo?" Alex was kneeling besides Martina a few paces away, helping her up. The three of them were in a beautifully furnished reading room, the sort you saw in movies: a fancy-looking single couch facing a lit fireplace at an angle, a dark-crimson rug covering the entire floor, and ceiling-high shelves filled with books covering most of the walls. Milo half-expected to see a hunting trophy above the fireplace, but there was no such thing, like a missing puzzle piece. "Grandpa had a few friends like that, but he never saw the fun in it" Tina had said when he'd voiced his disappointment. Still, you didn't see many places like this in this line of work.

"It's just a little stuck, let me try again" he turned his attention back to the door and turned the knob again, this time pushing the door against the frame at different angles in an attempt to help it open. This time the door budged and he could spy a bit of the next room, the crimson rug from the reading room giving way to a familiar, weaved, pale yellow pattern. The door wasn't so much stuck as behind a bunch of heavy boxes; one of them had caught onto the floor somehow which prevented it from moving, but thanks to the extra strength had become loose enough to push. Tina was leaning on Alex for support but was well enough to walk, and the trio crossed the threshold. "I guess if I had that kinda money I'd rather spend it on books than hunting rifles too", Milo ventured towards Tina before Alex closed the door behind them. She looked at him with a clueless expression. "Your grandpa" he clarified, which didn't seem to help things. Alex shot a glare at Milo "Where are we anyway?", he asked in an attempt to change the subject and with genuine curiosity. "Oh, this one's mine", said Milo. "I spent a semester in an exchange program in Japan, this used to be my room. That door we came through was a small closet, didn't have much of a use for it after packing". 

The room was just big enough for a student to live in; it had space for a bed - an actual bed, not a futon as Milo had expected before arriving - a decently sized desk with enough space for a laptop and whichever pile of books his advisor had dictated he read, and a small knee-high table in the center. The tatami flooring had seemed novel at first but by the end of the semester he barely thought anything of it. "I doubt there will be anything of much value here. It's not like I could bring many people over and most things happened outside". "Well, there has to be *something*, let's get looking" Alex insisted, clearly interested in the contents of the room beyond just what they were looking for. Martina seemed to have recovered almost completely, and began looking as well. Milo let his eyes wander around the room, his hands trailing the walls and his feet following the black lining of the tatami panels, like they used to whenever he took a break from studying. His eyes quickly settled on a pale glow, coming from inside a small bag sitting on a desk corner. "Ah, there" he said pointing at the bag. He grabbed it and let the contents fall into the center table. A pile of letters sat underneath a small glowing orb. "Just before I left a bunch of friends from the program wrote me these good-bye letters. I guess I did get a bit emotional over them back then..." he trailed off with a sigh. "God, this is fucked" said Martina suddenly "don't grab it, it's not worth it". Alex and Milo were taken aback, but Alex quickly recovered. "It's the job" he said coldly "you just did the same thing back there and Milo didn't stop you". Martina looked at the door behind which the reading room stood no longer. She looked like she didn't believe Alex, as if he'd just referenced a memory she was struggling to recall. Alex sighed; "you're new, you'll get used to it".

Milo took the glowing orb with one hand and balanced it on his palm. It was the size of a small lemon, and glowed an off-white blue. He wondered if the corporation's scientists knew what the color meant. He wondered if they cared. Not wanting to prolong this ritual any longer, he squeezed tight. The orb felt like a balloon filled with some sort of jello, and as he felt it rupture he felt a familiar dull pain on his temple. He closed his eyes and let his mind go blank as the last of the orb turned into smoke between his fingers. "Let's go", he muttered, standing up and walking without much difficulty towards the door opposite from the one they'd just come through. Tina was the one to linger this time before they closed the door from the next room (a kitchen with a smell of cinammon and vanilla that had kicked them in the face as they crossed the threshold).

The trio continued making their way through the rooms, sublimating what charged memories they could find. Tina reminisced with them about her aunt's cooking before forgetting her favorite cookie recipe, Alex found one the size of a cantaloupe hiding inside a shelf filled with arts and crafts materials from his attempts at becoming an artist (a fact he didn't care to share), and Milo stumbled upon several marble-sized ones glowing a variety of colors at his favorite seat in a diner from his hometown. The places were deserted, as always, and were setup such that none of them would encounter two of their rooms in consecutive order. The incursions required at least three people, after all, presumably so they could get some rest before they had to sublimate their next memory, and so they had company and couldn't get too in their own heads, a pun corporate had become particularly fond of, plastering it all over their good practices manuals and employee wellness ads. The three of them soon fell into a good cadence, with Alex leading the way as the more experienced delver. He'd dreaded bringing a newbie along, but Tina had grown used to sublimating fairly quickly and didn't look so drained after each of her rooms anymore. She'd piqued his interest: her rooms revealed a life of luxury not usually seen between other delvers, her surprise at how the whole thing worked gave him the impression she'd not done much research beforehand, and she looked like she had something to prove. He only wished that drive would last the rest of their shift.

Milo got up from the dirty floor of a factory warehouse, smoke coming from his hand. Disoriented, he looked around the room as if he'd just walked in; "well, this one doesn't look like anything I'd care to remember anyway". He shrugged, and started heading towards the door, which he opened with ease, revealing what seemed to be a classroom on the other side. 

"Wait!" Tina, who had barely spoken in what seemed like hours yelled at the top of her lungs, the word reverberating throughout the warehouse like the echoes of a ringing bell. Milo stopped in his tracks, the doorknob still in his hand. "God, what is it?", Alex replied, "there's just the three of us in here, there's no need to yell". "I... I don't think we are. Alone, I mean", came her reply. "What?" - "I just saw something move, over there" she pointed at a pile of wooden boxes not too far from where they were standing. Alex scratched at the back of his head, wondering what he could say to sound reassuring, but Milo spoke before he could. "I've heard their filter can sometimes fail, and let something or someone slip through. It's dangerous, they can make the projections collapse since they're not actually meant to be spaces compatible with complex memo-" "shut up, Milo, no one cares", Alex snapped at him "what did it look like?" he asked Tina. "I don't know, I just saw something leaping through the boxes. Maybe it was just a trick of the light... wait, look!" she pointed at a space between the boxes but there was no need, Milo and Alex were already frozen in place. A bright light had erupted from in-between two boxes, and other boxes stacked further in casted a jumble of shadows on the far wall of the warehouse. The trio stood like statues as they saw a huge, gold orange cat walk from behind the pile, its belly glowing as if it'd just swallowed the sun itself. It yawned at them, and a beam of light shot from its mouth, casting more shadows on the opposite wall. "Get. that. cat.", Alex whispered, his eyes glistening with the recognition of a golden opportunity.

What happened next seemed a blur to Milo's eyes. The cat, swiftly escaping through the door he still held open as it recognized Alex's intent; Alex sprinting after it, throwing Milo to the floor. He looked up and saw Tina, similarly taken aback by Alex's outburst, who shrugged at him and helped him up. The scene in the next room was becoming harder to believe by the second: books were strewn all across the floor and desks had been pushed aside carelessly as the once-stoic Alex had made his way through the room to the other side. Alex had finally managed to corner his quarry against a utility shelf, but it had the high ground. Milo was distracted by something off the corner of his eye, had it been a trick of the light that had made it seem as if one of the desks sunk into the floor? He scanned the room but nothing seemed out of place. He looked back at Alex, who was now trying to get a hold on the shelf.

The cat, clearly becoming agitated, made a run for it, jumping down, sprinting through the scattered desks and finally jumping *through* a window. Tina gasped, covering her mouth with her hands. "I-is that... is there something out there?" - "Not really. Just the boundaries of the spaces, enough of a semblance of an outside as to not seem to alien, but it's not some place anyone should- hey!" Milo yelled at Alex, who climbed through the window and fell down into soft grass below.

The grass ended not too far from where Alex had fallen. It ended abruptly, as if the classroom had been built meters away from a huge abyss. The edge of what, from his perspective, seemed to be the world was a jagged mess of irregular grass, haphazardly dissolving into nothing. He looked to the side and saw the cat running on the edge of the room they'd both jumped out of, its exterior wall an amalgam of colors and weird textures; it didn't register as a wall so much as a placeholder image. The grass continued in that direction until it didn't, giving way to an urban-looking sidewalk and a fragment of street road in the same haphazard, jagged way it did towards the nothing in front of him. He gave chase to the cat that carried a bounty big enough for him to retire from incursions altogether, consumed by the idea. His companions yelling behind him as they climbed out of the window themselves barely registered in his mind.

"This is not good" Milo said in-between gasps as they ran following Alex. By his estimations, they'd "skipped" through more than a dozen rooms already. "The spaces are breaking down, we're not supposed to be out here, *or* moving this fast". Tina could glimpse parts of the rooms that had windows in them as they ran, and was well aware of the phenomenom; she'd started seeing objects in unusual positions; it'd started with oddly angled tables, positioned such that parts of the rooms became inaccessible. Now she was seeing light fixtures sprouting out of walls. "We *have* to stop Alex!" she yelled out "Look! He's cornered it again, let's go!". Alex had finally managed to trap the cat against the walls of a room that barely could be called that, and was about to pounce on it. Gathering strength that could've only come from the will to exit the incursion as soon as possible, Tina and Milo positioned themselves covering its escape routes, the three of them working as one. Taking advantage of the increased numbers, Alex jumped on the cat, finally grabbing it with surprisingly little resistance.

The world went dark as he grabbed his prey, a torrent of memories flooding into his mind. Its weight as it slept on his feet as a baby. The sting of not-uncommon scratches. The warmth of its fur on a rainy evening. The chasing games played through cramped rooms. His favorite crayon, gold orange. Alex's grip loosened, a hostile hold turned into the semblance of a hug, and his cat adjusted to an older but familiar body.

Behind him, Tina and Milo spoke quickly. "What happens now?" Tina asked, her back to Alex and the cat, which she didn't want to see turned to smoke. "This will easily push us over the quota, so we should be extracted as soon as Alex sublimates it, *if* the system still works, that is" Milo answered as he eyed the mess in front of him. The world was a collection of objects strewn about half-constructed rooms, assembled into a monster of everyday use objects, half of them blinking in and out of existence. "Once we're back, don't say a word, let them do the talking, maybe they'll..." he trailed off, staring at Alex. Tina turned to look too, and saw a much different scene from the one she imagined. Alex was craddling the cat in his arms, tears strewn across his face. "She's not going anywhere. I'm not letting her go." he managed to say. "Are you crazy?!" Milo exploded. "*It*'s not *real*. These memories, what do you need them for? They can't be worth more than what they'll give you in exchange for it! This is all you've wanted! We're in this mess because you *know* how much it's worth!"

The words bounced off of Alex's awareness. He clung to his cat, wondering what had even driven him to accept giving up so much of himself. He just now realized his reason for becoming a delver was just another thing he'd forgotten. Had there been a time when the memories he sublimated all shone with such intensity as the one he now caressed? And prisoner as he was of this space, he knew where the way out definitely wasn't. He walked towards the edge of the space, ignoring the desperate cries behind him, and jumped.